

	          			                      Java Class Test
						                                                                               				01/05/2018

Q 1. What are the important features of Java 8 kit ?
Ans. Lambda Expressions, Pipelines and Streams, Date and Time API, Default Methods, Type Annotations, Nashorn 

JavaScript Engine, Concurrent Accumulators, Parallel operations.

Q 2. What is JVM and is it platform independent ?
Ans. JVM is JAVA Virtual machine which makes Java a platform independent language. JVM compiles the code in 

notepad file and converts it into .class file (bytecode), so that the same code can be run in multiple languages.

Q 3. What is the difference between JDK, JRE, and JVM ?
Ans. JDK - Java Development Kit which is required to be installed on the system to run the Java enabled applications.
JRE - Java Runtime Environment is a part of JDK and provides an environment for JVM in order to run the program 

compliled in bytecode.
JVM - Java Virtual Machine compiles the code and converts it into bytecode so that the same code can be run in other 

languages as well.

Q 4. Which class is a Super Class of all the classes ?
Ans. Super Class is the base class, features of which class are to be inherited to other classes.

Q 5. Why Java does not support multiple Inheritance ?
Ans. Java does not support multiple Inheritance because it creates confusion. For example the diamond problem that 

occurs in multiple inheritance. To avoid the ambiguity caused by it and to overcome this problem we use Interfaces in 

Java.

Q 6. Why Java is not pure object oriented language ?
Ans. Java is not pure object oriented language because it supports Primitive datatype such as int, byte, long, etc, to be 

used, which are not objects.

Q 7. Difference between Overloading and Overriding ? Can we overload main method ?
Ans. Overloading is when two methods/ constructors have same name but different parameters.
Overriding is when two methods/constructors have same name as well as same parameters which allows it to override 

the previous value and print the new value in accordance with the flow of the methods.

Q 8. What are the different access modifiers ? Explain with example. 
Ans. Public: Public access modifier allows the class/methods/variables to be accessed publically, i.e. throughout the 

project in any package and its class.
Protected: Protected access modifier allows the class/methods/variables to be accessed within the same package 

itself.
Private: Private access modifier restricts the class/methods/variables to be accessed only in the same class where they 

are created.

Q 9. What is the difference between access specifier and access modifier ?
Ans. 

Q 10. What is the difference between Final and Static keyword ?
Ans. Once it has been assigned, the value of the final variable cannot change.
Static is the shared memory variables, methods or classes and override the value of the current object.

Q 11. Can we declare a class as "Static" ?
Ans. Yes.

Q 12. What is the difference between Abstract classes and Interfaces ?
Ans. Abstract Classes are the classes which are used to hide the data and to avoid the entry of data again and again we 

Inherit this class and its features or variables as declared to other classes.
Interfaces are used to overcome the ambiguity in case of multiple inheritance in Java. 

Q 13. What are Wrapper classes ?
Ans. Wrapper Classes are the Bean classes or the concept of Encapsulation in Java used to make a central repository of 

data where we keep all the essential data safe. Rather than entering the same data in each new class which is required 

again and again, we Inherit the Bean classes.

Q 14. What are anonimous inner class ?
Ans.

Q 15. What are Ternery Operators ? Explain with example.
Ans. The Ternary Operator is an operator that takes three arguments. The first is a comparison argument, the second is 

the result upon a true comparison, and the third is the result upon a false comparison. 

Q 16. Explain keywords: Super, This, Garbage Collector, Passby value and Passby reference. 
Ans. "Garbage Collector" is a program that automatically removes unwanted data held temporarily in memory during 

processing.
"Super" keyword is used inside a sub-class method to call a method defined in the super class. It is also used by 

constructors to invoke constructors of its parent class.
"This" keyword in Java is used inside the Method or constructor which works as a reference to the current Object 

whose Method or constructor is being invoked. The this keyword can be used to refer to any member of the current 

object from within an instance Method or a constructor.
"Passing by" reference means the called functions' parameter will be the same as the callers' passed argument. "Pass 

by" value means the called functions' parameter will be a copy of the callers' passed argument.

Q 17. Write a program to print duplicate elements of an arrray. 
Ans. 

Q 18. Write a program to check if the String is palindrome or not.
Ans. 

Q 19. Write a program to print Triangle.
Ans. Package Name
	public class Triangle
	{
	int i, j;

	public void acc()
	{
		for (i=0; i<5; i++)
		{
			System.out.println(" ");

			for (j=0; j<i; j++)
			{
				System.out.println(" *");
			}
		}
	}

	public static void main(String[] args)
	{
	Triangle obj=new Triangle();
	obj.acc();
	}

Q 20. Write a program to print series of prime numbers between 1-100.
Ans. 
